right because like what you're trying to
like you have this artificial
construction of like one day i'm gonna
be this thing and i'm gonna be fixed
and once i'm fixed then i'm gonna go out
and i'm gonna help the world like it's
not how it works man like
you're never fixed you just got to do
the work that you got to do like there's
no like fixed is not a thing
welcome thank you uh
and can you tell me what you want to be
called today or how i should refer to
you
uh jt like by the alphabet because i
have a chinese name so it's just easier
okay
jt okay welcome jt
are you joining us from uh it's a form
of a foreign country are you
uh yeah yeah i'm from singapore
okay southeast asia okay cool
so welcome and um
how are you feeling today uh
i'm like excited and also nervous yeah
yeah
those two those two usually go hand in
hand right
yeah yeah and and what can we help you
with j
today jt or how can i help you today
okay uh
sorry is it okay just use my phone cause
i just jotted this down um
yeah of course it's just how how to not
let the fear of falling behind
further hinder my life and how i
interact with other people
okay um and and can you tell me a little
bit about
your fear of falling behind
well it's i mean like uh it's just that
i've fallen behind
in terms of education uh my social
relationships with people
uh my love life essentially
yeah and i i think like i've also like
i i i think maybe like uh i felt like
shame from it
or like people have to have like uh
pointed it out that
like let's say like in terms of my
schooling my classmates like dude you're
20 already like
how are you still here or like like can
you like add your age and stuff like
that you know when i'm behind
like like when i'm talking to them and
stuff like that so yeah just like
yeah and it's just like sorry
yeah keep going oh um
is this that uh yeah i'm just like
constantly reminded that
i'm like following further behind and i
don't have like a lot of time left
if i want to like achieve like my goal
in life
okay so and how old are you jt
i'm 20 this year 20 this year okay
so i i'm i'm sort of getting the sense
that
you may be feeling desperate
uh i guess yeah that's right
okay and and so
what um what do you want to achieve
uh my life goal oh you said it
oh yeah sorry uh yeah okay so i'm just
gonna preface this by saying like okay
it sounds very
it's like very big okay but it's just
genuinely how it truly feels i'm just
gonna say it
okay like good i essentially plan to do
what
you are doing but in singapore and then
like uh i just wanna start like a mental
health startup that way and
like in order to do that you just have
to get like singapore is like a very
monotonic like society so like you have
to get like super good grades if you
want to like
do something big so yeah that's why like
uh
i i'm like uh working so hard to ensure
that i
at least like get into university okay
yeah so so um well so
i know this may be a little bit weird
but i'm
in a weird way like you know i wouldn't
have been able to do
what i did unless i had fallen behind
right because like like
you know so i think like in short
i mean so you know we'll talk a lot more
but like
like falling behind is like a core part
of who i am
and you have to if you want to help
other people like
you can't be someone who's at the top of
your class and like
tell someone hey like just you know this
is the road to success
you have to have actually failed if you
want to help people who have also failed
i'm not saying that i'm not recommending
it to anyone because it sucks
yeah it does you know so the first thing
is so i just want to kind of toss that
out there
i still want to learn a lot more about
you i think we're not really
you know i want to learn a lot more
about you but my first thought is that
you know if you want to start a mental
health
if you want to be the the singaporean
version of me
you're doing it perfectly and falling
behind is how you start so that's like
great
like that's the first step of your main
quest is to fall behind
and yeah okay yeah i guess that's true
but like
because like you've mentioned before
like you essentially have like a limited
time frame of
of like of like how you want to help
people because you feel like
there's going to be a time of age like
where you don't feel a sense of relation
to like the
young adults right so like i feel like
the
though if i keep falling behind further
like maybe like 10 years or like maybe
or like maybe like five years
maximum in terms of how i want to help
people yeah so
what i'm hearing is that there's a
certain amount of falling behind
that is on track and if you
fall behind too much you have fallen
you've missed that
sweet amount of falling behind and
you're worried about that
yes it is very okay cool we can we can
work on that okay so tell me a little
bit about um so it sounds like people
you know will will like point your
they'll tell you about your age and what
do they say
they'll say like oh you're 20 years old
and can you tell me about that
oh so like um i guess like
when i'm wrong people that i'm
comfortable with i tend to act like
immaturist right so like
sometimes i tend to annoy them and stuff
like that it's like my friends were like
oh my god can you just like
you're 20 and like we are 18 really you
know and and we're just like okay yeah
that just keeps me in check you know
like like grounded yes i'm supposed to
act like this
or like let's say like sometimes they
tell me like oh i forget that sometimes
you're 20 you know so like it makes me
think like
like damn they're like really so behind
because like these people like 18 and 20
already they're like
they're literally at the same pace that
i am and then like people like
like let's say like in my boxing gym
those people who are my age they're
already like serving their mandatory
like national service
orderly like in university like pursuing
the things that they want and i'm just
like
like in my second year of like like uh a
second year
college okay so is that not universal
can you help me understand what
university is and what second year
college is
oh okay so um so in terms of singapore
there's like
uh like we don't really go to like when
you go from high school you don't really
go to like a
a college for like a like just a general
college you get
there's like three like junior colleges
polytechnics
and uh ide so that's like uh like it's
just a
so like uh from when i was like when i
was 16 i went to
ite so that's the worst one essentially
it's a bit harsh but yeah uh so but in
order to get the university you actually
have to get to like the second tier in
order to get into university
right because the first year is not able
you only have to do it when you're 16.
if not
you you don't have the chance uh yeah so
so
second year is just like yeah this is my
second year in polytechnic because
there's like three years in
this college okay so what are most
people who are 20 doing in singapore
uh they're either serving their
mandatory national service or they are
in university
most of them like if they follow the
like the first day of path right
uh they they're already like in in
university
okay so how many years behind
are you uh
two three four five five four
five oh five okay okay so
yeah how does it feel to say that uh
i think like i've i've i think i've come
to come with
okay i've not come to terms with it but
i don't know it use
disheartening yeah yeah because
yeah i'm just constantly reminded about
it whenever i'm just interrupting people
because like
if i like new people that i'm trying to
interact with like for example
like they i tell them like i'm 20 in the
second year college isn't like
that after them then i'm the second i
mean like the second year college like
probably
10 and they're like oh are you like
graduating soon like oh no
i'm like in my second year then i oh
okay or if i tell them like
i was actually from the third tier
college that's why then there's like uh
there's a stigma there because like
in singapore like people tend to like
look down if you were in the third year
college
for example yeah there's like all this
like uh
factors okay and jt can you help me
understand
how you fell behind in the first place
uh just like mistake that i made like uh
i guess like uh when i was 16 15 like i
just
throughout my secondary school um and
like just in high school uh
i wasn't really very studious as a
person um
you know i didn't really work hard as
well uh like a lot of people keep
telling me like oh i'm smart you know
you
do it you know but like like yeah i just
can't i just couldn't study
and like i just stick to games all day
like every day just playing games even
like during
like exams like when it was exam period
like during the exam day i was playing
yeah i wasn't even studying yeah and
then that's how i got into
college and the only reason how i got
into like the second year college was
because often like a like a inter
attitude interview assessment
like they assess you like if you're in
the third year college and you want to
get the second year you can do this
interview where you can like soak
courses like also i wanted to stop
course from
like i.t like computer stuff to like
psychology like and drama and
i applied psychology and drama so like i
interviewed there and
like in the polytechnic and then they
gave it to me yeah then
how do you feel about that i think that
was like the happiest moment of my life
when like they sent me the like email
notifications and they say like
uh dear like dear jt congrats oh my then
i just
started freaking out like i was in a bus
my jaw dropped and everything i was so
happy
yeah because i was then i was like yes
finally like you know
one step like further i'm like at least
take one step you know i'm not as far
behind now
yeah and and so are you
moving on pace now that you're in the
polytechnic college
um like slowly yeah i i i think i'm
doing
quite quite well actually like maybe but
i need to be better
if not i just need to be like way better
a little bit but
okay so help me understand
when you say you're doing quite well how
do you determine whether you're doing
well or not
i guess through my grades like okay so
like the max in terms of gpa is like
four right and like 3.79 now
and so but in order to get like you like
poly university like
because from second tier day that's like
it's very very hard
to get in compared to if you're in a
first year college from four
universities
and only universities they're like they
have like psychology and they're like
more reputable
it's like only like two universities the
third one is like just like longer a
long way longer but uh
so like uh yeah it's like you need to
get like three point nine maybe
like three point like a high you want it
so like essentially
this semester i have to get everything a
but like sorry i'm
sorry like talking a lot by like just
giving more information but like i think
this is like elective
i like it oh okay i did this like
elective and i
and then like uh like uh
i got a b plus and i was like so sad
about it but like i'm trying to like
work on it like
it's something that like trying to work
on like uh it's like accepting the
oh sorry i'm just gonna you know because
good because this is i just
i just like note things that i've
improved on and like things i should
improve on
sorry so like uh focusing on the process
not the outcome
it's like i can't control getting an a
but you can be confident in my own work
done or like
i accept the outcomes gained by
validating the emotions of my outcomes
but like sometimes i feel like they
don't work as well
sure or like i don't think even though
i've been like working on it for like
a year now like i it's not as
it's not it there's not much improvement
i guess
okay
i i really like the level of detail
you're going into jt and by all please
pull out your phone whenever you want to
because i think it's really helpful
um can i just have a second to think yep
okay
can you um tell me a little bit about uh
you know
why you you want to why you want to be
the singaporean version of dr k like
help me understand what
what appeals to you about that why is
that your goal
um i think i think i literally found my
dharma because of you
okay yeah yeah okay i'm noticing that
how how whenever i say that
it sounds as though it feels my mind is
like liking me like that sounds
stupid you know okay but sorry uh yeah
yeah uh
yeah i you you helped me for my dharma
and i think this is just what i wanted
to do and like i think
like uh like singaporean society needs
it a lot
right because uh we are very
neurotographic and we are like go go go
go go you know we don't have time to
rest it's just
like drilling it in very technical
integration you know just like
i drill it in don't like don't stop you
know it's just this is how it is so like
i want like
like so like most people they feel like
they don't have anybody talking about
things and i
i want to offer that help to people and
also like how you're doing it like your
help yeah you're doing like peer-to-peer
coaching and stuff like that which is
really so i want to like
put people who are who know better than
me in like terms of like uh how like uh
like maybe like
x convicts fields like because they're
they will x-con convicts themselves you
know like then they can't be sure that
can't stop like i love that
yeah so let's do it here because and
also
because when i wanted to like be a
healthy gamer coacher
it was it was not it was not legal when
i tried to sign up
in singapore's i mean like like from
singapore so i guess
i just want to do it here cool okay so
so why do you want to help other people
like help me understand what what do you
want to help them
do or see differently from the way that
society is right now
um
like sorry can you just repeat the
question yeah so so like
so you said that the problem is that
singapore is like very like
a meritocracy and they like kind of
drill you to like you know
do this then do this then do this then
do this if you do all these things
then you are successful and you are a
good human being
and if you don't do those things you are
a bad human being
right that is that fair yep
so how do you want to change that
uh
i just want them to tell themselves that
there are other pathways it's just going
to take longer and you just have to
accept it
sorry so i just gave myself the answer
of like
my work sorry sorry
but you know but like but for me i have
limited oh crap
i'm saying like oh i have limited time
i don't know man oh or maybe i
shouldn't maybe i shouldn't do that
because i don't even know how to combat
that if i
yeah but i don't even know myself no no
but
good so you're doing you're doing great
jt right because like it starts with
noticing
you're like like the answer that you
want to give them is like the one that
you need to hear
and then like why is that funny because
then as soon as you say that you realize
okay this is the advice that i need to
follow
and then like your mind is like when i
try to follow that advice your mind
tells you
doesn't want to listen to it right yeah
so so what does your when you say
you know it takes time you have your own
path you know just keep persevering
and what does your mind tell you in
response when you try to tell that to
yourself you can tell to someone else
but when you tell it to yourself what
does your mind tell you
dude you're not gonna yeah you're not
gonna make it if you
if you slack over you don't study you
did but you're not gonna have time
like uh there's no way because if you
wanna do like like uh you can do like
the third university but you're gonna be
like
30 by the time you you even get out of
the university then what you're gonna do
like 30 to just just to get a bachelor's
i'm like okay
i don't know what i'm supposed to do and
then that that can happen to me because
like
okay this is very egotistic but like i
this goal is so big i
like all bigger than like the norm like
people like most people
like i hear like oh they just want to
earn money they want get rich so they
can do everyone
but like this goal of helping people
like i i need to get there faster
because
because i need to help those people and
if i don't help those people
in time then it's useless
like oh like my life is like worthless
okay because it all right yeah
okay
okay i'm gonna try one thing that's
probably gonna bounce off
so like how old do you think you need to
be to help people
um what how old is too late
i mean i can actually like like okay
when you say help people
like uh i can help people now honestly
in terms of volunteering and stuff like
that and i have done that
but it's just um like help people the
way i want like the way you're doing it
like in need like in terms of you need
like good like
successful like education and you need
to have like scholarships and stuff like
that
in order to like enforce change in terms
of like macro system levels like
in terms of society and stuff like in
singapore's like i i need to have good
grades if not they won't listen to me
right cause like i could like like like
someone like a second year
like a college person like with a
diploma and applied psychology telling
you oh this is how you're supposed to do
it when
like they're like people like in
universities with masters already
like i mean how how old
how old tell me what
what do you need how old do you need to
be and what kind of professional
certification do you need to be
i calculated it would be 28 for masters
and then hopefully i can work at the
same time and do my doctorate
i'll be like 34 or something 34
34 by the time i get my dog but
like 28 i can start helping people in
terms of my master in terms of getting a
milestone yeah
and and buy 30 are you on track by 34 to
get your doctorate
i hope so okay right yeah
so like i i mean do you know how old i
am
38 yeah do you know how old i was when i
finished training
uh no no
let me just make sure i have this right
i was 36 when i finished training
i don't know oh sorry uh i said
what wait you need i'm doing this for
two years from now
yeah well i thought you like seeing
patients for quite a while yeah so
so much like masters so i finished
medical school at the age of 32
but i finished residency at the age of
36.
huh go go
so like like i said like i said right so
so you're on track to be faster than me
what does your mind tell you
that i want to help people faster as in
i i yeah
or like like i have to be faster or like
i
i don't know it just does many to be
faster okay so like
you are already on track to be faster
than dr k
you're gonna be you're on track to be
two years faster than dr k and what does
your mind tell you in response to that
uh it's telling me nothing he's just
saying okay cool yep uh oh wait
um
uh yeah okay i don't know i feel
satisfied now
but i don't
my mind is like telling me like no it's
not enough because
i like i'm trying to my mind is trying
to discredit you by saying like
oh dude you are you're in the u.s
education system and i'm in the
singaporean education system it works
differently you don't have the same
amount of opportunities
i don't have the same amount of
opportunities that you have okay good
good so now so the first thing to
understand so i want you to notice
something okay when it comes to feeling
fallen behind and desperate the reality
the situation
does not matter at all
because here you are with your goal
and i'm telling you you are two years
ahead of me
you're two years faster than i am and
and your mind is gonna find
some way to like
set that aside and discredit what i say
do you see that
like it doesn't i i could tell you jt
you're doing great
and you'll find some way to tell me i'm
wrong
you'll find your mind will find some way
to keep you feeling desperate and
ashamed
does that make sense yeah
we're doing it again yeah but i'm just
trying to notice it so like it will go
away but like that's the problem because
like like
yeah i'm just like noticing it right but
like sometimes it will just already just
like fades and then
it comes back no like like oh god do you
know i did i did this like
like a few days ago when like my friends
were critiquing me about how i should
improve right so like
uh i i was trying to notice that because
i went to sleep by angry and i was just
trying to notice my anger
and just like kept coming back so i
couldn't sleep for like three hours
because i kept noticing it
it was like so hot yeah yeah so it's
it's really hard man
so i think you're doing a good job and
we're going to try to help you okay so
the the key thing
here though is that a lot of times when
we feel like we've fallen behind
we think that something in the outside
world will
make it better right like if i fix
something outside if i catch up if i get
a 3.79 if i get a 3.9
if i do this then it'll go away we think
that that the solution to falling behind
is changing something in the outside
world right
yeah your mind is telling you i will be
satisfied
when dot dot dot but what we can kind of
notice is that like
even though you got accepted and you are
super happy and you're getting a 3.79
you know and maybe it's not enough if
your mind is always going to tell you
it's not enough do you see that
yep even though you're making progress
sounds like you're going to be okay
actually but like your mind is like it's
not enough it's not enough so we have to
recognize is that an objective
achievement in the outside world
is not going to make you feel like
you've caught up
even if you're telling me that you want
to be dr k and that sounds grandiose
like fine whatever
and then dr k is telling you you're
doing it two years faster than i am like
that should be enough
right but it's not going to be which is
why i said it's going to bounce off
which is fine which is why i said it
just so we can appreciate that it
bounces off so this is where like the
work that you need to do has
nothing to do with your external
performance
it has everything to do with like the
feeling of falling behind and where that
comes from
because it sounds like you're doing okay
right like so it sounds like you weren't
a great student and then you've worked
your way up to a 3.79
you've got some work ahead of you and
you've got to shoot for a 3.9 will you
make it will you not make it like who
knows
but like you may you know sometimes
you'll get a lucky break in the future
too like you take enough shots
you open enough loot boxes and like
eventually you'll get
you know like some rare item
and and you'll like i'm not i'm not
worried about you jt
so because i i think that like you know
this is where you say you got lucky but
like
you also it sounds like you had an
interview right
yeah and and like sometimes in life like
we just have these opportunities where
we just
have to like you know crush it in a
moment and then we can catch a break
and and so i think if it's been my
experience that like people will catch
breaks
as long as you keep looking for them
like if you sit at home and like play
video games all day like
you're it's gonna be really hard to
catch a break but if you're out there
you're trying you're applying to stuff
you're taking classes
like someone somewhere will like notice
you and be like okay let's give this guy
a chance
right that's what happened like that's
how you got in because someone like saw
something and they were like oh like
this guy really is not in person he is
different
from what we see on paper
on paper he doesn't have much much merit
but this kid is a little bit different
so let's give him a chance
and i i do think that the world
functions like that and if you keep on
like
putting yourself out there that people
will notice that
and like value that
can i say the comments yeah uh because i
like uh recently okay so like our our
teachers like sometimes i do check-ups
during the holidays to see how we like
however in terms of mental health and
stuff
and like like just now when you stay
there like yo
you're the way you're gonna progress the
way how hard working on the way you do
this kind of things you you're gonna be
fine
but like my teacher told me like like if
you wanna like
do great things like for example my
friend he was doing like he wants to do
like policy making in singapore right
and like i started it but you need
scholarships and stuff it's like i
relate what i'm doing like in terms of
how
like how grandiose is his goal is to
mine so like equal
it's like and she said like like you
need to have scholarships if not
no one's gonna notice you if not like
like you're not gonna
you know you're gonna know where like
it's only because he volunteered
that they're doing so many volunteering
work right now they're like like
they're like working they're doing so
many things like all these kind of
things like all these big things
just so that they will get noticed like
and i'm here like i'm not even
i'm not not right now i'm not even
volunteering i'm just like studying
right but but my my peer my friend like
he has been volunteering
his gpa is like way higher and this way
he'll probably get it and i won't okay
yeah
oh i said yeah okay it's not that i
won't but like uh like i stand a lesser
chance
yeah so i think that makes sense
so jt i don't think you are your friend
you're not one of them
and and i think the harder that you try
to be
the more you will miss out on who you
are
what does that mean because like so so
this is where like i know it sounds
weird but like you don't need to be them
like you need to be you
[Music]
yeah sorry yeah go ahead
oh like yeah isn't like usually like i
need to be me but like
yeah i was in but i still need to
volunteer i still have to do this
stuff right if not i can't get the
scholarship i can't get noticed
according to the teacher
so so the we'll we'll get to that in a
second
right but like if you're not capable of
volunteering and studying at the same
time like can you do that
okay so okay so that's what i'm saying
if you're not good enough i know it
sounds kind of weird but like that's
where you need to start
right so like what are you capable of so
that
there are there are a lot of different
things here so let me like let me
say there's two different tracks here jt
one is that
your personal sense of shame and
desperation
is emotional and like if you want to
understand like so
i can say as much logical as i want
to and it's gonna bounce off every time
until you deal with that emotional thing
if someone feels like they're unlovable
someone else can try to love them as
much as they want to and it just won't
it will never land it'll never hit right
it'll just bounce off over and over and
over again
so if you want to like discover your
confidence you have to start by like
exploring where your shame comes from so
we can talk about your parents and stuff
like that
and like you know what it was like
growing up like where you started to
feel
fall behind like you know you can tell
me about how ashamed you felt and all
that kind of stuff
and as we start to see because you kind
of say that you know
the shame you you notice it and it comes
down and then it pops back up right
so where is it coming from where is it
popping from it's
it's because your mind has that
emotional energy
from being 16 years old and getting into
that
third college the ide and you felt so
ashamed and then you started to play a
video game
so where did all that shame go it got
buried
and now what it does is pop up and the
more you played the video game the more
you buried the shame you felt behind
other people you know then you were 17
and then your friends were 17 the
friends that you used to be with when
you were 12
they started to grow and now every time
you compare yourself to your friend
there's more shame building do you see
that
yep okay so like there's the getting rid
of the shame down below which has
means working through it the second
thing to point out is comparison
okay so comparison is a function of the
ego
and the ego arises when you're
experiencing negative emotion
so the more you compare yourself the
worse this is going to be
because if you think about it falling
behind can only
happen if you have a standard of
comparison
okay then the third thing and don't
worry jt
don't worry we're gonna calm your mind
down the third thing is there is a very
harsh reality
that you live in a country that is very
comparative
right we can say as much like dr k like
you can make me feel wonderful on the
inside
we can deal with all the shame i can
conquer my ego
and at the end of the day when i apply
for something they're going to look at
my resume they're going to look at my
scholarships they're going to look at my
volunteer
situations and they're going to say
screw this guy
and who they're going to listen to is
the guy who's got all that stuff and
that is the world that i live in
true so what do we do about
that right so like
right so like these are the different
topics we can talk about because i i do
think that we could have a discussion
about
growing up in a society that you say is
a meritocracy but it's not actually a
meritocracy
so like it's it's an artificial
measurement
of merit right it's it's a
measurementocracy
because it's not real merit it's like an
approximation so like
our society has become more and more
geared towards
what we can measure versus what is
valuable
and we've started to confuse the two so
like if you look at the stock market
like
if if a stock price is high that means
the company is doing well
right that's what we started to do we've
started to replace
merit and value with measurement
because it's easier so it's like hard
for people to like get
to know every student so what we do is
we give them a test
and we say based on the test we're going
to rank you
and that's just the way the world is
which i totally get
right and i think that there's
particular like strategies and stuff to
to navigate the meritocracy but like
you know i i think that if anything i
mean jt you're 20.
the question is what is singapore going
to be like 10 years from now
20 years from now 30 years from now and
40 years from now
right huh
you wouldn't know you wouldn't know
right so so and this is where i think
part of the problem here is that
some of your goals i think are very
artificial
like and this is where you can try to
be something that you can envision
but like i don't know if this makes
sense but like once again since you said
you want to be like me
at 20 years old what i thought i wanted
to be i was completely wrong about
right and and like the whole point of
like
you know like the way i became dr k is
by like ignoring
what the world was doing instead of
trying to live
up to the world standard
it's like being myself and the more i
started to be myself
instead of chasing after what other
people wanted like
that's how i became me
it's actually moving away from like
what everyone wanted like it's like you
know quitting
a good position at harvard
it's like that's what everyone wants
like you know when i graduated they were
like
you know because like even when you
finish you know there are tears right
there's like there's the good jobs
and they're the medium jobs and they're
the bad jobs
and since i did really well they offered
me the good job
and i was like no thank you so like like
that
that rat race that like that
you know that treadmill of like first
you have to do this and then you have to
do this then you have to do this you
absolutely have to play the game to a
certain extent like don't get me wrong
but like i wouldn't put i wouldn't get
it you know i would strongly encourage
you to like realize
that you don't you know affecting policy
like that may change
what you need to affect policy may
change
you know and this is the kind of thing
where it's like you know
anyway i mean you have no idea what the
world is going to send you like just
trust me on that one
you just you just have no idea
you know and and and this is where like
like this just to be blunt this is just
too bizarre
but like recently someone put me in
touch with someone
very high in the singaporean government
and and they're like they're like
interested in doing something around
mental health in singapore
right so like i have no i like it's just
a bizarre i don't know if anything is
going to happen to it
but like it's very possible that i have
no idea because
i don't know what comes next but like
it's very possible that like
some healthy gamer could move into
singapore and if healthy gamer moves
into singapore i would be like
hey i know a guy what do you guys think
my point is i have no idea if that works
i don't think we should rely on that
expectation
my point is that you just have no
clue
like what the future holds and so trying
to build a life
based on like okay this is what i've got
to do and this is what i've got to do
and this is what i've got to do
so i wind up in this place and this is
what i want to achieve is like the wrong
way of thinking about it
just the whole the idea of falling
behind is a mental construction
it's not actually a real thing now i
mean there's some reality to it because
do you need like a good resume so that
people will listen to you sure
i'm not disputing that but you need to
be like fluid
in the way that you achieve your goal
and like if if you don't if you have a
3.79 the question
and if by all means go for the 3.9 like
work your ass off
study really hard learn how to study
because your friend learned how to study
when he was 15
or 12 and you like missed that part
right
i missed it too and and this is where
like i
i also think you don't you don't have to
be big
this is another big common misconception
like the most gratifying work that i do
isn't with like huge numbers well it's
not most it's all about even
but like this is why you know why do we
do this like i'm talking to you man
like what i care about is like talking
to one person at a time i
have to talk to thousands of people
that's not actually what's fun it's
talking to you like i want to help you
and whether the internet is watching or
not watching there may be an objective
difference in terms of the impact that i
make
but it doesn't that's why we stream but
like at the end of the day whether
in my office or we're on the internet
like it feels good either way dude it's
very fulfilling either way
does that make sense yep
it's yeah yeah i'm just i'm just like
processing everything you're saying and
i yeah i'm just like because every time
you try to talk right and sometimes
like my mind will like shoot up so i'll
just like try to notice it immediately
then like
it just goes and then you go to the next
point it comes up there i'll just like
notice it so just try my best
yeah it's just yeah i'm just thinking
because like uh you took
like uh so if i can't remember a lot of
information because i'm just trying to
like process it all
it's just um like you tell me like okay
dude you just
for example i give you like the example
like you told me like like studying
right i learned how to study and i i
have learned how to study actually
study quite well learn how to study
quite well because of the guides that
you put out
and uh but the thing is sometimes like
they they still get like it's still like
a plus or it's still like uh
stuff like so i think like something
like yeah still comparing where i think
like
oh if i do what you tell me to do i'll
i'll get the result that i want but it
doesn't add up
yeah so so and and that's that's where i
mean i i think you kind of like
like you know you're like you're going
to tell people some someday
right like let go of the result yeah
and and and that's where it's it's hard
man like don't get me wrong it's hard
but like you're you know you're growing
you're not in your final form yet
and and you know i i can try to reassure
you i think that's not going to work
very well like it's only going to work
so much but it's like
you know i mean you just you just never
know what's going to happen
like you just never know so i think
building a plan
so and this is i mean it's not really
your fault because you know you probably
you have been conditioned right your
mind has been taught
that unless you do a b c and d in this
order
you will not succeed that there's a
formula for success
right and you're you're not living up to
snuff therefore you will not succeed and
when like
90 of people are telling you that of
course you're gonna feel that way
yep and and this is where it's kind of
weird but like if you're talking about
you know changing policy like you have
to be the example
like you can't be you know like
you know like yeah yeah dude exactly
that is exactly why like i'm trying to
like
that's why like that's what i'm trying
to like buff myself up i mean i'm trying
to like make sure that i don't have any
of these kind of problems you know
because like okay like like uh yeah it's
just like
like this i'm trying to improve improve
improvement so that i can be the best
version so that i can help people you
know so that so that i don't have to
like
do this interview with you so you can
help me you know i'm saying
yeah so and this is where i mean i got
to tell you man like
that's the whole thing is like wrong
right because like what you're trying to
like you have this artificial
construction of like
one day i'm gonna be this thing and i'm
gonna be fixed
and once i'm fixed then i'm gonna go out
and i'm gonna help the world like it's
not how it works man like
you're never fixed you just gotta do the
work that you gotta do like there's no
like fixed is not a thing
right like the world may tell you it's a
thing like the world will
absolutely tell you that this is what a
fixed person looks like
and we can we our mind has been
conditioned towards that
but i think jt like honestly i think
you're doing great we'll we'll get to
some of the other emotional stuff in a
second but like i think you're doing
like you're doing the most that you can
which is great which is perfect
and this is where like i think you're
living your karma like you just weren't
born with like you know a high level of
conscientiousness it sounds like do you
know what that means
like the five factorial stuff yeah
yeah right so like some of us are just
not born with i wasn't born with a high
level of conscientiousness either either
i still
sort of don't have one which is fine
like you can still be successful
the problem is that the world believes
that a particular kind of person
is success but it's been my
overwhelming experience that
if you play the game like if you watch
someone who's like playing like let's
say wow
okay what do you play by the way uh
i read league of legends uh monster
until uh
okay all right so so like let's say like
overwatch right so like
if if i'm watching someone who's like an
awesome tracer
right and i'm like they're like giving
everyone right and left
and then i'm reinhardt and i try to play
a tracer style game and i keep losing
i'm like oh i need to like
i need to be faster right i don't know
why it's not working
so your friend is like tracer and you're
like reinhardt you just have to play who
you are
right and and i know it sounds kind of
weird because the world is going to tell
you like it's it's like back to like i
don't know if you watch pro overwatch
but
you remember back when there was like
the three tank meta
yep goats right so like like like so
like like the meta right now in
singapore is like a three tank meta
and you're trying to play a dps and so
you can look at the meta and you can say
this is what success is because that's
what the meta is the meta is the
meritocracy
you do this you do this you do this you
do this you do this
but over time the meta evolves and how
does a meta evolve
jt no
like i just i just
i went up because i would say i'm gonna
say like buff patches you know like
the the the company but then the company
means the government that means the
government
is they can change stuff and stuff like
that you're right
so the meta can change through policy
which means back to your original plan
you have to do really good someone has
to change something somewhere not so but
the meta doesn't only change due to buff
patches
how did the goats meta evolve that
wasn't through a patch
like reducing the champions ability so i
i i
so the point i'm making is that like
sure something got nerfed right but it's
a combination
of buffs uh patches plus player
innovation
because like it's not like someone you
know the patch happened and then
immediately people were like oh let's
start playing three tanks
someone was like oh let me try
something differently
based on the circumstance of the world
and then something becomes op but that
openness
is the circumstance that the world
creates
followed by the innovation of thinking
differently thinking outside of the box
so like let me say no
wait for like to like revolve around me
no
dude so this is what i'm saying so if
you look at healthy gamer's story
like the world was what it was right and
we innovated
within the balance balance patch system
of like the government
so like there was like and like
literally there's like policy stuff that
matters here so we've like
talked to attorneys and like things like
that we've said can we stream we talked
to twitch and we were like
i'm a psychiatrist can i talk to people
on the is that allowed
in the rules will the government can i
do this i talk to people
in like you know the medical community
and i'm like i have a license like what
do you guys think am i allowed to do
this
and then we innovated the point is
and now everyone's like you
you now you're just playing meta decks
you're like oh i'm going to be like dr k
now like following my meadow is my
innovation
but that's that's how the meta evolves
mm-hmm right so and this is where where
it's kind of weird but like i think that
the part of the thing and i know this
sounds
i'm going to say something kind of
random so i was once in a class that
looked at
nobel prize winning papers in biology
okay so all we did in the class was we
read
12 papers that won the nobel prize
like 12 experiments and the really
fascinating thing is like
like the you know what it takes to win a
nobel prize
is to like think off meta
that's like literally what it takes to
win a nobel prize
the whole meta is one way
and then someone is like oh wait
let me think off meta instead of doing
everything the way that things have been
done before
i'm gonna try something different
and so like that's what it takes to win
a nobel prize
so there's a part of you that's like
trying to chase
like what everyone else is doing
and that's fine for the plebs
right but like if you if you really want
to make an impact in the world
i think you've got to step away from
like what you
like forget about what you want to
accomplish
and just like focus on who you are and
where you are
and then like opportunities will come
like you'll have you know like it'll
click
i'm not worried about that for you it's
just about
convincing you that like you can just
like be who you are
and i i don't know how else to say it
because i think we've already said this
but like
i wouldn't be who i am without the
failure like it's such a
it's just as important as the harvard
what do you mean by like be who you are
like like or just accept that you are
like this like what does that mean
that's a good question so i think
especially in meritocrac
uh societies like singapore india is the
same way
everyone's like what the hell does that
even mean
right because like all we're taught is
like what we should be
does that make sense yeah
let me just think about how to answer
that because it's hard
oh sorry no no it's it's it's the most
important question um
so you know what you want to be right
yep what are you
i'm just a polytechnic student
yeah i'm just student and honey i'm not
there
no i'll get there i i just gotta like
keep this pace and if and
not up yeah so so i i think that's
actually like a pretty good answer so
like
you know islam is there's some emotion
there what's that
you feeling some emotion no not really
sorry okay no no so i i think that the
more that you kind of accept
that i'm a polytechnic student i i would
be a little bit careful about the word
just right so you said i'm just a
polytech
that's just what you are it's not better
or worse
than anything else which i know sounds
weird in a meritocracy society
but like i know it sounds weird but like
you can't be
anything but what you are
like how tall are you jt right
172 cm uh five foot eight okay
can you be five foot ten
uh with the proper shoes okay okay
can you can you be no no it's a good
answer can you be five foot six
uh i don't know right so like
so like when you when you go and buy
clothing
do you buy clothing for people who are
six foot
or five foot
um like yeah i guess like my size or
like maybe a little bit bigger
yeah right and so but what if you want
to be six foot
what if i came to united jt so imagine
you succeeded in your goal
and one day i come to you and i say i'm
five foot five
and i want to be six feet so i keep on
buying six foot clothing
and then why do you want to be six foot
all right because
six foot is better than five foot and
it's what i want to be so i'm i'm gonna
move towards that
uh
okay i'm just noticing the the metaphors
they're using and how it applies to me
so explain that it's just it's
a different ball game it's just a
different game you can't
be this thing because you're just on
that thing
or like you actually have to like show
appreciation that
the piper is not a bad thing you know
like you stupid
there's no things that you can't do but
like like women like dudes who are
taller so let's be
let's be clear right well let's just
assume that for a second i don't know
that's actually true but like
that's the way a lot of dudes think
right so even if we say that six foot is
better than five foot five
they're like there's studies that show
that height is correlated to
corporate advancement so the likelihood
of you being a ceo
is seems to be correlated with how tall
you are so let's even say that it's
better to be six foot than five five
what then uh
[Music]
i don't know there's like nothing you
can do actually because they're so
insistent on wanting to
be this thing even though they can't
okay sorry right so so so
and here's the thing is like if you want
to succeed right let's say i'm
a five foot five dude and i want to find
a girlfriend
then dressing in six foot clothing
is not gonna help
right i have to play to my strengths
like like if it's the goats meadow like
we're gonna get three tanks like and
forget about tracer like who cares
but we don't need a tracer right play to
your strengths
that's what it means to be who you are
is you may objectively be worse than
your friend like
i i know it's kind of weird but like we
live in this society where we say like
everyone's equal like no they're not
like does every human being have
is any human being worth more than
another human being no
i mean yes sorry wait wait hold on i'm
getting confused i think
in terms of intrinsic value they're
we're all the same
but in terms of like capability like
we're not
right like some people are just like
better at basketball
like some people are just like more
successful at life
and i think that like if you're someone
who's fallen behind
accepting that is the way that you
really start to shine
like you can still have a wonderful
loving relationship if you're five foot
five
you just have to stop worrying about
being six foot and just play to your
strengths and i think you'll be fine
you can still be a ceo at five foot
seven even though
height apparently is an advantage but
you just have to accept that like you're
playing life with a handicap
you can still win but as long as you
like
pretend to live a life where you're not
handicapped
and you get so caught up with the
handicap that you forget about the game
um what's your mind saying now
that um okay so like
you know like there's like peter kapha
and right so like i'm very pita right so
like
like uh like so you you mentioned like
many times like these
peta people are just like the ordinary
like just the average
kind of people right in terms of
statistics in class or whatever
and like the thing is like if i were to
like
play to my strengths like many people
are like average and stuff like that so
like how can i play to my average
strength
like if i want to like innovation and
like must be powerful right like in
terms of how you counter the ghost
method it must be
stronger than that meta right so how can
average
sorry sorry i'm putting down myself but
like in a way but like
like how can average stats be better
than like other statistics
so it's a good question so let's like
answer it in a weird way okay the first
thing is that
the reason you're average is because
it's an
amalgamation of different qualities
your total stat pool may be average
but there are some things that you're
going to be better at so one thing i'm
already noticing is you have a very
very high level of self-awareness
of awareness of your internal
environment you're like in the top one
to five percent of people i've ever
talked to
so like your problem is that you think
that like okay but how does that help if
i can't change it
which is a good question i haven't quite
figured that out yet
but i i would say that the thing that
makes me the thing that i'm really good
at
is also self-awareness like that's the
thing that i'm really the best at
and so if we think about my ability to
work with people like my ability
will work with people is all based on a
very very careful analysis of myself
the problem is that this is the kind of
thing that is not easily translatable
into external success like it took me a
while to
craft my life to be suited
to myself but i was able to craft it
because i was aware of what i was
does that make sense it's like playing
the long game definitely
because the world is not you have to
like craft the meta of your life
to suit your internal characteristics
my mind is telling me like oh my god i
gotta wait again
i don't like like uh like i just scared
that crafting is gonna take so long
yeah yeah yeah you know
yeah and so go ahead
yeah i'll just go behind further but if
i can okay if i try to innovate because
because like oh yeah because when you
mention like innovation i've always
tried to do that in terms of my projects
and assessments that they give
i always try to innovate but when i
innovate i get like
b pluses but and if i stick to the meta
i get like a's
so like so i'm like so scared now
because like if i try to innovate in
like that in that context as well i'm
scared that it won't work out
sure yeah no i mean that that's that's
the problem right that's the problem
with changing the meta
is that most people who try to change
the meta fail
oh this isn't like okay as in like
because if i fail take
it will take longer and i'll just have
to try try again okay so now we see
something really important now we're
actually going to help you okay
the rest of it was for everyone else but
do you see how no matter what i say
we're coming back to this yep yep i see
it
okay so so now the question is what
so how long have you felt like you're
falling be
uh let me put it this way actually it's
it's interesting because it's not just
falling behind i think we've actually
stumbled upon something else
how long have you felt like you can't
afford to fail
only recently actually or like maybe
it's like more prominent
when i actually when i actually got into
the second year college right
when i got when i got to do what i
wanted that was when i realized oh
crap yo like the universe has given me
something
and i'm gonna take it so i'm gonna use
it properly and i'll use this
like rng like 0.1 percent like luck that
i have and use it good
because i'm so unlucky that i'll never
like even in games i'm always very
unlucky so like
if i even when i get 0.1 i got to use it
to like the fullest potential if not
like i'm just wasting that you know
jt did you feel more
did you feel like you were more behind
before you got into polytechnic or after
you got into polytechnic
so how do you understand that because
um i guess in uh like in idea i was
still like
uh like i i didn't really care as to
what kind of direction i was going
it didn't mean that well i i mean my
grades were still okay like 3.56
but like um only when
i got into yeah only when i go into poly
there's many changes
so let's think about that what would you
expect
if you've fallen behind and you take a
step forward
would you expect that person to feel
like they're catching up
slowly yes right right yep but how did
you feel
when you got into polytechnic
um in terms of catching up uh
i was
okay sorry i'm just trying to fight my
my my inner thought because i'm like no
just just just just shut up yeah it's
it's like that was when i realized that
oh my
god i'm so far behind again or like i
like further behind i thought
okay so
you feel like you're super far behind
right oh my god the
the ipad of truth of knowledge
okay i used to watch your online
webinars with this so cool
okay hold on here's here's the problem
okay
so now let's say i'm
let me think about this okay so let's
say
um let me think about what these axes
are
so feeling
of falling behind
okay and progress
all right does that make sense
yes okay i see it so if we were to say
like let's say i'm behind right so my
progress is really low
and so how far behind do i feel do i
feel really far behind or do i feel not
very far behind
like fall behind i guess right so this
is where i am does that make sense
yeah i feel super super bad because i
haven't made any progress
and then as i make progress what should
happen to my feeling of falling behind
it should go lower right yes
with me right and then at some point
we're going to even cross the x-axis
this is what the curve should look like
okay so now let's talk about u
so let's call this
ide and let's call this polytechnic
okay when you were
at ide is ite sorry
yeah my bad okay i-t-e
so when you were it let's just start you
in the middle okay
how far behind did you feel when you
went to polytechnic
or increased
right so what can we deduce
about as you make progress how are you
going to feel
oh good sorry it's just going to stay
out
it's going to peak and gonna continue
forever
so i know this sounds kind of weird but
how far behind do you feel
right now where are you over here
right like let's say you're like over
here
but what what this means is along this
line the higher up you go on this axis
the worse you're going to feel i mean
like like
do you see like it's weird because it's
the opposite so what we can almost infer
is that the more behind you feel
the better you're doing
now i know i know it doesn't make any
sense but i'm just asking you to be
scientific i'll explain why in a second
why this happens but this is really
important for you to understand
this is why you were terrified and i am
not
because i understand this is what your
curve looks like
and that the higher up you go on over
here
actually what i'm paying attention to is
this and i see this for sure
that's why i'm not worried bro i'm
really not
the problem is this is the way that your
mind interprets progress
now we're gonna explain why this happens
but like does does this make sense to
you
yep it does okay so
now let's explain it okay i'm gonna
uh i'm gonna stop sharing okay we're
gonna go back
so it's a it's a really common problem
okay
uh and then i know i know it sounds
weird but
so when you're in
when you were at ite right you weren't
actually playing the game
yep that was it so it's impossible to be
behind
when you play when you're not playing
the game it's like
can't be behind if you're not you're not
trying
and so this is the really dangerous
thing about feeling like you've fallen
behind
as you start to catch up you begin to
realize like so if i'm at the bottom of
a mountain
and i'm not gonna climb it like i don't
have very far to go
there's a ten thousand foot mountain i'm
sitting at the bottom like yeah i'm just
gonna play games all day
like i don't i'm not gonna i don't need
to climb the mountain like it i
don't need a gold i'm just chilling
screw that like sure you're filled with
shame and stuff you're playing video
games all day
there's a land center that's at the base
of the mountain you're just kind of
hanging out there
it's no big deal something dangerous
really happens
as you start climbing the mountain then
you begin to realize oh crap
once you climb a thousand feet then you
look up and you say oh i have nine
thousand feet to go so this is really
really tricky
but if you have this some scar of
falling behind
as you make progress success
makes it harder
actually making progress makes the
mental feeling
so much worse it's really paradoxical
but once you understand it actually
makes perfect sense
we did an interview like over a year ago
with a guy named crucif
that i think is a really fantastic
interview i don't know if it's on our
youtube channel
but crucif is a guy who is really
overweight and he was like falling
behind like he was like
stuck in a lot of ways and he had this
really interesting thing where like he
would
like dig really deep fight his inner
demons and then would like start to lose
weight
and he would do good for a week or two
and then like
at the two-week point he felt like
really really bad
and we we almost called it like a rubber
band like he was attached to something
like with
with like a rubber band and then he
would run away from it
and the farther he ran away from it the
increase
the tension of the rubber band and he
would come snapping right back
does that make sense yep and so that's
kind of like what you're doing too is
like as you're actually making progress
in a weird way you feel like you're
falling behind
more and more and more and more
because now that you're in polytechnic
what do you do
you compare yourself to your friend
but when you were in ite you weren't
comparing yourself to him as much
and then what happens is like let's say
you get into university
and if you're not careful
and like you used to compare yourself to
the people in university
right or maybe but then once you become
one of them
you're going to find something else to
compare yourself to and then
as you move on you're going to find
something else even when you start
making policy
and you are have the same job title as
your friend
you're going to find someone else to
make a comparison to
this is why people like i'll work with
people in investment banking it's really
common in banking
because they get a promotion and they
want to get the next promotion you want
to get the next promotion you want to
get the next promotion
that feeling of falling behind jt you
carry
within you and your mind will find
whatever kind of comparison it needs to
make
it'll find like you know thousands of
people
why do you compare yourself to this
friend
because it reinforces the feeling of
falling behind
the feeling of falling behind is its own
entity
that will push aside any data
that makes it feel weak
and will latch on to any data that makes
it feel validated
does that make sense yep
they're just discrediting like my
achievements and just uh focusing on my
negatives and what you improve on
yeah yeah you do that right yeah
right so so so like you can and
yeah sorry yeah go ahead no no isn't it
because
because like i i i always thought that
it wasn't like a bad thing that i'm
trying to make improvement because i
always draw them down on my phone like
what i'm supposed to improve on
i yeah i don't know i guess i didn't
know it was like
male adaptive so so it it's not a bad
thing the question
so all of these things jt in your mind
are not bad
the only thing that's bad is is who is
in control
so like i'm not saying you should stop
trying to improve like
you should absolutely try to improve the
question is
is that desire for improvement coming
from a place of this is what i need to
do to catch up
or is it an improve is it about
is this what i need to do next right
these are two very different things so
i'm i'm gonna
bust out the ipad one more time okay so
now like here's the tricky thing
so right now when you think about
improvement
there are two ways to think about
improvement okay
one is a goal focus so this is like the
future
this is your goal this is this is your
friend
so when you think about improvement are
you trying to go from here to here
because this is a this is an improvement
out of a deficiency does that make sense
yep like so improving from here to
here is fine like ask like being in the
present and saying what is one thing i
can do to
make one step forward that is present
focus this is what you're looking at
this is where i am this is who i am
this is where i am i need to you know i
i have a 3.79
and i need to make it a 3.9 that i think
is a healthy improvement
because this has to do with your goal
right this is like
where i am this is the next step that i
need to take
but if your goal depends on this over
here
if this is where you are if you're in
the future
then what you're going to create is no
matter this is the only stuff you could
take dude this is how long your leg is
right
this is your leg you can only move this
much
and if this is your goal if you move
this much
this is going to be not enough
do you understand so every step
you take what is the thought in your
mind
not enough not enough
if your mind is over here so in a
bizarre way
the more you move forward the more
behind you feel
because what is the emotion that you're
reinforcing within yourself
what is the some scar you're building
not enough
it's never enough it's never enough
even though you're making progress
so what you need to do is like i know it
sounds like this is where we got like
people say this really simple stuff like
focus on the present
like yeah i would like why how like
what's the deal with this is why this is
important
because as long as you are thinking
about your end goal of being dr k it's
never going to be enough
right jt you will never be me nor should
you try to
because like the patch like the meta and
the patches like
i arose in a particular meta that meta
is gonna change
by the time like you're ready
so you shouldn't try to be me you
shouldn't try to be your friend you
shouldn't try to be
anything really just be who you are and
focus on the next step
and recognize that even though you're
moving forward you're gonna feel
like it's not enough
but like all of that i don't know
how to say this man like it's all
wrong it's all false it's all a
construction of the mind
based on this idea of falling behind
because here's the problem is like this
is where you are
like this is where you are that's it
there's no falling behind like this is
where i am like
that's it if i say i've fallen behind
this much now i've created
an artificial construction if i've
fallen behind this much now i've created
an artificial construction
right so you're 20 years old and you're
comparing yourself like you're hanging
out with 18 year olds
so maybe like that's the gap here
okay but like it doesn't matter like all
this stuff is false like this is just
where you are if you're 20 year old
in polytechnic with a 3.79 gpa your road
forward
is absolutely the same whether you fall
in behind or not
the big difference is that one of these
things
is going to help you anytime you take a
step forward
and one of these things is going to make
you feel worse every time you
take a step forward
yep i see it
then how do i combat that that some scar
i guess or like like how do i combat
that
that that that that fear of falling
behind off or like not or telling myself
that
actually i'll just go on my own pace you
know and stuff like that
like how do i combat the fact that i
tell myself that no enough
yeah okay so so good so the answer
is you don't combat it
so what you need is not to combat
yourself
you need compassion towards yourself
so what i want you to imagine is like
you've become successful okay so you're
dr jt and there's like a 20 year old
who's going to come to you and is going
to be like dr jt
i've fallen behind and like how
what are you going to tell him like
what have you fallen behind on okay sure
yeah so like ask yourself questions
right that's good and then what
like i guess like identify what i'm
falling behind on
and whether or not that that like factor
or falling behind is
is uh changeable in any way okay so
like so like in terms of my age or like
my height or like uh
or falling behind in in grades it it's
just like
it's just that it's just that you just
have that
yep you're you're that's
yeah my mind tells me that oh my then
i'm supposed to be happy with being
this way or like but what if i want to
aim higher you know
high standards so let's
roll reversal okay
but i i'm i'm 38
and i've fallen behind dr jt
what should i do
can you help me
i uh
sorry uh i'll i'll yeah i can uh
i don't know where to start but it's
just
what have you fallen behind on or like
let's say maybe like you're too late
no no yeah so i want to be i want to be
a professional dota player
but i've wasted the last 15 years of my
life becoming a
a doctor what a waste oh sorry uh
are you like taking any steps to improve
on it in terms of
like maybe you're playing a lot and
stuff like that no i actually
uninstalled dota a week ago
oh then why do you uh what do you have
this worry about
wanting to to like what do you just
worry about
falling behind when you're not like
taking steps to improve on it
that's a really good question i i i see
like that's that's good right like
that's that's great
so like like just inquire
right like and so i i could say but i i
want to be a dota player and then you
can point out that like if you want to
be a dota like a pro dota player like
you know install dota that's the first
step
right and that's what you would tell me
to do i i mean
maybe you're going to tell me that's not
going to be possible and you can't
become a dota pro at your age which i
probably can't
yeah right so so so if you it so like if
you would tell me that then like what
would you say to me like do you think i
could become a pro dota player at my age
when there's like such a bad
psychologist slash psychiatrist if i
tell you
do not but like realistically like no
right you can't you can
you can try you can always try your best
and see how it plans out for you
you know like and then offer them like
this these ways that they can help but
like
in the end if it doesn't work out you
just have to like accept it
or like yeah yeah right so i think you
know what you have to tell yourself and
this is the kind of thing where it's
like
you know when when you when that voice
comes up and says this is not enough
what i want you to recognize is that
like that voice is a part of you but it
is not the whole
you right and so what you need
in that moment is actually like some
degree of like validation
and reish like validation and faith
actually so you can say you're right
i am behind
and i'm gonna keep moving forward anyway
i don't need to catch up
i just need to move forward
and then the voice is going to tell you
but it's never going to be enough
and so then you're going to tell the
voice you're going to say you may be
right it may never be enough
so what should we do about that
right like talk like recognize like like
what are you gonna do like so
don't argue with it be like yeah you're
right like i can never
go back in time and be 15 and learn how
to study well
and therefore i will always be
two years behind my colleagues
or four years behind my colleagues i'm
gonna be behind for the rest of my life
now what
right so yeah what is your mindset
it's not you saying nothing yeah it's
like it doesn't have an answer for it
exactly that's how you disarm it
it's weird right
yeah i always thought awareness would be
good or like just noticing they would
disappear
oh yeah no no it is good it is good
you're chipping away at it
the problem is that every time like some
battles it wins and some battles you win
awareness is helping but every time you
make that comparison every time you take
a step forward
it actually gets reinforced because you
tell yourself it's not enough it's not
enough it's not enough
so you are you are shrinking it and also
feeding it at the same time
[Music]
no wonder there was no progress see no
there was problems
yeah i mean you've come a long way dude
right because like you use it sounds
like you used to play games all day
yes like all the yeah and
how many hours a week do you play now uh
now it's the holidays so like
but like obviously like because like i
studied in the morning right so like i
started like four hours or like two
two three hours and then i was just
starting because like
my mind doesn't attack me anymore so
yeah it's good yeah
yeah man like do you do you not get like
how enviable you are
to so many people who are watching right
now like they would kill for that
yeah but suddenly oh all right my
mind's gonna discredit me again but it's
just like
i have to do that if not i don't if not
i can't because like
normal people like the way i'm starting
right now is like i'm revising the
revising so like
like i'm triple revising so that when
the revision comes i might triple revise
so that i know because i'm not that
smart right
i can only rely on my hard work like
because that's why i need that thing
other people they don't really need to
study a lot like this a little bit
advocate
but like just yeah i need to do it
yeah good i i don't think that that's
bad at all i love that statement
you need to do jt what you need to do
that's how you will be successful
i need to do it because i need to do it
other people aren't that smart who the
cares
whether you're smarter or they're dumber
that is irrelevant
what what matters is what you need to do
and every step of the way if you want a
step-by-step guide to being dr
k it's do what you need to do and don't
worry about what anyone else is doing
like you have to play the game right
like doing what you need to do it's not
like i just wake up one day and like
here i am no like i have to you know
have to work hard i have to decide like
okay i'm going to go to medical school
because it's what i want to do
when i when i went into medical school i
wasn't even going to be a psychiatrist
i wanted to do oncology and i wanted to
like save people's lives
who had cancer and then like when i
thought about being a psychiatrist like
my family was like
you're joking right
so they're like why would you want to be
like
you're joking right
so the world is going to tell you like
that oncologists and definitely
you know the world says this a lot that
oncologists are worth more than
psychiatrists
because cancer is real and if you want
to be a real doctor like that's like
helping people with cancer because how
much more of a doctor can you be
so forget about the world man and like
you just do you
and like walk your path every single day
and recognize that like
you know you're gonna feel behind and so
be it you are
what are you going to do about it you
got to start somewhere
don't fight that voice like you're doing
notice it
you know you can even like thank it in a
weird way right because
part of the reason that you've gotten to
where you are is because it has told you
that this isn't enough and it drives you
forward
so try like different things which is
just like
acknowledge right be like yeah like i've
fallen behind recognize that
so when you're like 35
and starting university
you know like like there's gonna be
there
how did you respond to that
shock i'm just like i'm just like maybe
it might be real dude
like yeah maybe right i'm just like that
what you're telling me now is like
acknowledge it and stuff like that right
because but like i think like similar to
a lot of interviews
interviews they've done right most of
them don't want to change this stuff
right
because like it's like it's like
productive for them even though it's
toxic in a way
i'm just scared that if like i debate it
right like talk to him and stuff like
that right
that won't give me the drive to do like
work as hard or like work super supply
yeah yeah so
so so that's why i'm saying once again
not don't get rid of it
you should be in control of it it should
not be in control of you
right so recognize that the feeling like
you've fallen behind
is like a temporary buff
that comes with like a long-term debuff
right so you do use it and you should be
grateful so like recognize that there's
like
a an 18 year old kid inside you
who's terrified that he's never going to
be enough and what i would encourage you
to do is
talk to yourself the way that you would
to a younger brother
who feels like they've fallen behind
right like you want to be encouraging
you also don't want to like lie to them
you don't want to say like oh no
everything will be okay like
you're beautiful and i love you like
everything will be fine no you're gonna
tell them like hey man
like you are behind but like you gotta
you gotta start somewhere
and i have faith in you you can do it
like you've shown me that you've come
this
far you went from like ite to
polytechnic
you have a 3.79 gpa almost 3.8
you need to shoot for a 3.9 so you got
to start working your ass off
i'm proud of you for even on your
holiday or whatever
like it sounds like you study two to
four hours a day
and you're revising things for the third
time which is awesome
and i don't know if you're ever gonna
catch up but
if you are i think revising things three
time is the way that it's gonna happen
what does what is your voice what does
your mind say to that
yeah i just have to keep going at it but
yeah i'm just thinking like when do i
like allow it to like like uh like uh
like buff me and when do i like i cause
it's very hard for me to notice when
it's a debuff and when it's above
because like sometimes i just think that
it's just a debuff and that debuff
kind of like creates a new buff of
moving forward
and then yeah that will make me how do i
identify that yeah so
it's generally speaking you want to get
rid of this
okay generally speaking but it's going
to take time
and i have to be really careful because
i'm trying to give you
so you keep on asking me questions about
the future and i'm trying to avoid
giving you
like answers about the future you're
like how do i tell you just you just
keep doing what you're doing man don't
worry about it basically
but generally speaking i do believe this
is a negative some scar
and in like just about everyone that
i've worked with where we've worked
through
falling behind when they no longer have
that mental complex
they start to do better now the problem
is that if i tell you that
you're gonna cr your mind is gonna
create a new goal and then you're gonna
start telling yourself oh i need to get
rid of falling behind i need to get rid
of falling behind i'm not getting rid of
it fast enough i'm not getting rid of it
fast
enough and it's just gonna the whole
cycle is gonna start over again
but if you really want an answer like
you need to get rid of it
but just when i find that i'm scared
all right i mean so this is where
you know i think it's like it's a whole
other conversation but
you know i i'd say like it goes into how
long have you felt desperate
um actually forget about that we're
gonna go we're gonna go
try to speed run this okay so tell me
about your romantic relationships
uh i've only had one but it wasn't
really real
and it wasn't it wasn't really like like
uh
i mean like i don't really consider it
like like real stuff because it was
really toxic and bad
and that's it that was like six years
ago
i had like oh wait like four years ago
two years ago okay
and how do you feel about like have you
fallen behind in terms of like
girlfriends relationships you're
heterosexual
yes okay uh
rolling around that uh i don't know i
just go on my own pace i'm like
i mean it doesn't really affect me like
whether or not i'm singing a lot
great okay so like that's that's good so
so it doesn't seem to apply there
oh but sometimes it it comes up
just sometimes like it it will come up
like my
like my feeling of loneliness and stuff
now i'll try like notice that because
like sometimes it will
affect my actions and how i interact
with people
how do you mean like okay let's say like
okay my best friend right so like i'll
just like
like i'll just complain to him that i'm
single and i want to change it and stuff
like that
and they will give me solutions there
like then after once i notice it i'm
just like you know actually you know
it's just like is this how i feel
sometimes sometimes it comes out like
yeah it's just a thing it's not really
how i feel
it goes back down yeah cool so like
like over time are you feeling the
loneliness grow
or shrink or stay about the same
um
i guess now i would say it's drinking
actually yeah i'm quite like
okay with it yes so so i think the big
difference if we look at
falling behind right when it comes to
your professional
career academic stuff like that i think
you do a lot more things to feed the
samskar
which paradoxically is what we talked
about with like moving from
ite to polytechnic you felt so much
relief
and you were like oh crap i've fallen so
far
now i'm playing the game like i just
started the race like everyone else
started a few years ago
and i'm starting now right
and so i've like missed like the whole
everyone's like ahead of me and i'm
starting late
so so i think the relationship is
actually a really good example of like
how to do it
well right because like it's interesting
because you're doing all the stuff that
i'm telling you to do
professionally because you're saying oh
i'm just lonely like you don't tell
yourself
oh i shouldn't be lonely or i need to be
with someone you're just like
hey sometimes you feel lonely and like
the reason i feel lonely is because i'm
alone
that's okay like it'll work itself out
hopefully eventually
right you just kind of chill with it
it's just like there
you're like does it is it feel bad yeah
but like you don't your mind does not
feed off of that does that make sense
yeah yeah
whereas with falling behind your mind
like really feeds off of it right and
starts like
like oh my god then this is gonna happen
and this is gonna happen and then i'm
gonna do this and this is gonna have
never gonna be enough and look what that
guy's doing look at that like you don't
do that when it comes to loneliness you
just kind of acknowledge the feeling you
sit with it whereas there are definitely
people who have it reversed right
their professional career is like going
okay but when it comes to their romantic
life their life is like oh my god i've
fallen so far behind like
i know i'm okay like with my job it's
like yeah like i didn't get promoted
like who the cares
you know i'll get there eventually and
then when it comes to personal i feel
like i'm gonna be alone forever like no
one's ever gonna like me like i don't
know what to do
like let me i'll give you more realistic
thoughts it's not i'm gonna be alone
forever it's like
other people learned how to date in high
school and i did not
other people learned how to date in
college and now i'm 25 years old
and i don't even know how to date
like it's gonna be so hard for me to
ever find anyone because like
everyone has more experience than i do
and like i missed that boat
and now i'm screwed i've fallen so far
behind
right but your mind doesn't do that it
sounds like when it comes to dating i
was hoping it would and then we would
you know get an easy answer but in an
interesting way i'd say
do you see the difference between your
professional stuff and your dating stuff
and how you respond to your mind
yeah yeah
so yeah so i i would say
jt there are two ways to deal with the
some scar basically okay
one is to notice its action in the
present you actually don't need to go
digging into the past and you can just
work on it every time it arises
the second way is to dig into the past
usually what we do on stream
is actually digging into the past but
the reason that i
kind of went this way with you today is
because i think you're actually
genuinely really good at noticing in the
present
so this is something that most of the
guests that we come on i actually don't
know if they're capable or not but
it feels easier it feels like i have to
teach them so much more
to do what i did with you today
it's way easier to ask people like you
know
how their dad didn't get you know get
got their brother a
nintendo switch for their birthday and i
didn't get a nintendo switch and then
i felt a lot like it's easier that way
but
um i don't know that we're gonna have
time to really
open up that whole discussion and i also
don't want to lose
anything from what we've gained by like
moving on
how does that sound to you yeah i think
that sounds very fair i'm also gonna
like revise this later anyways like just
see it
any tips i can improve on later oh yeah
yeah
questions um
is there any like specific meditation to
like stop this because like sometimes
like
the meditation i do is like i don't
really think it addresses it as much
or like it just like like relieves my
it just released my neurotism for like a
period of time yep yep so let me let me
think about that that's a good question
um
would it be easier if i inform you of
the meditation that i do
sure uh okay sorry just let me put up my
thoughts
uh i do like yogic sleep on an
alternative day
and then another day i'll do like uh
like
the mantra that you gave and then also
the
uh rum sorry ram bam
bom rum thing yeah okay
okay so um
okay damn dude you're
you're a real tryhard bro yeah i'm sorry
i'm a smithy
sweaty neck i'm like a it's impressive
man
okay so let's talk about
okay so since you have some background
we're gonna this is great
okay
so i'm gonna give you advanced versions
of two of the practices that you're
doing
yes okay okay so the first is yoga nitra
so what you need to do is develop a sun
gulp
oh i have okay
i am capable
tricky tricky tricky tricky tricky oh so
okay so
okay tricky sorry tricky tricky so
this is going to be subtle okay
so the weird question
um so let's think about this okay
you are capable involves what
time
what does that mean so like capability
is about
what it's it's a
i don't even know how to ask this it's
it's so subtle but that
sun gulp is exactly incorrect so like
capability is about what you are going
to become
it's about catching up
does that make sense it's a potential
that is not realized but one day you
will be
right one day you'll catch it's like the
exact wrong thing
it and it's it's such a good i mean i
don't blame you for picking it i think
it's beautiful that you picked it
and that you shared it and that you were
like here's the things
it's like perfect it's like karmically
perfect but do you see how like that is
reinforcing the wrong thing
i did not realize that yeah and you're
not going to right this is why some
gulps are usually given by like teachers
right because like and this is like but
do you see like
and this is really why like this
meditation stuff is shouldn't be taught
over the internet but like
it's a good example of something that
seems really positive
i we can totally understand why your
mind generated it because it's like
exactly what your mind wants
right it's the dream that your mind is
attached to and it's saying
if i do this practice i will catch up i
will achieve my dream
i will get there one day i will climb to
the top of the mountain i am capable of
getting to the top of the mountain
but the eyes are still at the top of the
mountain instead of at the sep
the next step that you need to take
so let me just think about that for a
second so we gotta
remap your sun gulp
uh does that make sense you with me yeah
yeah yeah
um
i always thought it was so helpful
because it was such a good buff
like i've used it so much so yep
yeah so i think it is a good buff and a
debuff
yeah right so so so it's it
i think it's like it's hell like it's
there's no doubt in my mind that it's
helped you
and i think like time to let that go
um i think this is gonna be
too far for you but
one thought that comes into my mind
we're gonna find a different one this is
gonna create too much tension
i think if if you could replace it with
i don't need to be capable
okay i will try that but but how do you
how does your mind react to that
i think uh based on this interview i
think uh my my mind has kind of
accepted it okay i'll just try it
because it's like something new right
maybe my work
okay let me try to come up with
something better um
um so you can do
a mantra of soham
okay so so is gonna be
your inhalation if you close your eyes
and you just listen to it
you'll you may hear
something like and then the inhalation
and exhalation you may be able to hear
that
but what soha means is i am that which i
am so it it
you just you are you and like it sounds
kind of weird but like in your own
breath
you can like you know when you breathe
and you just like feel yourself like
that's all you are
so i would say you can use that as a uh
so the sun cult will be like
i am what i am period
okay um wait so do i change the mantra
as well because like i do the
because i think you gave it when you
were interviewing the
the russian asian something like that a
home brahmasmi
like me is not what you want
oh okay so okay so yep
yep so a ramos means a little bit
different
so um
uh yeah so like you're you're i would
say like if you're going to repeat
an english or i don't know what your
native language is but like a sun help
along the lines
of something like i'll get there
or what i am is good enough or i am what
i am
period like like you
like so if you like i
am what i am and then in terms of your
month or practice i would change that to
soham
so okay sorry oh sorry yeah go ahead
oh uh because like uh so like it's like
because i want to get this right because
i also use the beats right when yep
because you say like there's like buffs
and stuff
so like i i use my the pre beats and
like so i just
inhale and then like i say so hump and
then i
exhale and then i move on like to the
next yep so so this is where we're gonna
go to advanced practice okay
so so so hum so you can say soham
and then what i want you to do is with
each bead i want you to hear
soham within your breath
so close your eyes okay do i get the
beat sorry is it okay if i get the beat
yeah you can get the beats
okay all right all right okay so
close your eyes
okay can you hear me if
you have your headphones off yeah i have
i have you on speed
okay okay so
so close your eyes sit up straight
actually let me go get let me go get a
set of beads hold on
okay so we're gonna teach you guys japa
okay
so i gotta okay so let's do
a quick refresher this is the guru bead
okay the guru beat is like going to be
at the end
um and what we want to do is in
generally speaking your right hand
you want to hold the bead between
you don't want to use your pinky finger
or
your index finger so what we're going to
do is
rotate it between the fourth finger the
third finger
i know it looks hard
sorry try it like this
all right i'm just trying to copy it
fully
it i know it sounds kind of weird but
just move it
without using your index or your pinky
finger
okay i see it and then it's going to be
easy okay
so what we're going to do is
i don't know how many beads your mata
has but in the hindu tradition they have
so we're going to go all the way around
right one at a time i'll teach you how
to do this
and then once you hit the guru bead you
actually don't cross it
what you do is then you start going you
flip the m the mata around and you go
back the other way
okay so
you can absolutely chant soham
um i'm not going to chant it for
weird reasons but you can chant it
but what i would recommend is that you
try to hear it
okay so as you as you sit up straight
you know you've got your
your uh mara and then
breathe in and out
thank you
okay can you hear it
can you hear the soul and the hum
yeah it's very low
so you can increase the sound you can
increase the speed
of your inhalation and your exhalation
to increase the volume
oh of the of the oh okay
i was saying like lowest and low in
pitch yes
yeah it's gonna be yeah i think that
makes sense
it i never thought about pitch but i
think that'll make sense
um so
yeah so i'd say i'd say you know change
your sun gulp
and and alhambra masmi is like
yeah i don't think i don't think it's
where you are that too
is like aham brahmasmi means i am the
universe
and i think you're some people
need to be more connected to the outside
world
like um but i don't think that's your
problem
actually i think your problem is that
like your way to
your your sense of self is like
caught up in the outside world
right like you need to be less connected
not
more now i'm not saying you shouldn't
you know i don't think by all means
continue to study and stuff but like all
this stuff about the meritocracy and
what you have to be in what the world
wants you to be like you need to pull
away from all that
okay okay so quick reminder of java
practice so let's practice together for
about 60 seconds okay
um yep and or we'll practice for like
let's say like two minutes
okay so and your back is straight how's
your
do you do yoga and stuff or no yep i do
it in the morning before i do my
meditation
okay good all right so sit up straight
and begin
me
yes
go ahead and come on back when you're
ready
okay yeah i mean i i didn't manage to
like restart it
like i was i was hungry yeah yeah you
don't have to go fast
god i'm so grateful i'm just so grateful
to have this opportunity and like just
like
it's just surreal that i'm meeting you
as well and i'm just grateful to be
here just like here as in every like in
every way
alive present wow thank you
so you know how we talked about living
in the present you know that feeling
that you have right now that's
your anchor this is what it is to be in
the present
you know so when people talk about like
enlightenment or moksha being in the
present it's a weird feeling of like
gratitude and appreciation and presence
like that's what it feels like right
like it feels like
amazing to just be fully here
so you're doing everything right man
like if you can feel this
way in this moment you are doing
everything right because how
could you be doing anything wrong and
feel this way
oh my god okay yep i'm just
well yep yep right cool
cool good luck thank you
yeah good luck man
thank you uh you're very welcome goodbye
thank you
bye
okay that was unexpected chat
but wonderful to be sure